docs/content/how-to/openstack/index.md, before:

---
title: Hosted Clusters on OpenStack
---

This section of the Hypershift documentation contains pages that explain how Hosted Clusters
and Nodepools can be deployed on the [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org) platform.

!!! warning
    OpenStack support within Hypershift is currently "dev-preview" and therefore is not
    yet intended for production use. However, it is possible to create and manage
    Hosted Clusters for development and testing purposes. It is expected to work
    as described in this documentation.

!!! note
    When you create a HostedCluster with the OpenStack platform, HyperShift will install the [CAPI Provider for OpenStack (CAPO)](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-openstack).
    in the Hosted Control Plane (HCP) namespace.
    Upon scaling up a NodePool, a Machine will be created, and the CAPI provider will create the necessary resources in OpenStack.
    CAPO created OpenStack resources by leveraging [Gophercloud](https://github.com/gophercloud/gophercloud), the OpenStack SDK for Go.

Table of content:

- [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md)
- [Create a Hosted Cluster and a default Nodepool](hostedcluster.md)
- [Destroy a Hosted Cluster](destroy.md)

Advanced scenarios: additional Nodepools can be created with specific configurations:

- [Nodepools distributed over Nova availability zones](az.md)
- [Additional ports for Nodepools](additional-ports.md)
- [Node tuning, SR-IOV Network Operator](performance-tuning.md)

Commit message:

OSASINFRA-3492: feat(openstack): leverage ORC to manage the release image
This PR enhances OpenStack support in HyperShift by improving image management
and ORC (OpenStack Resource Controller) integration.

- Added a new `RetentionPolicy` type with `Orphan` and `Prune` options.
- Implemented `ImageRetentionPolicy` for OpenStack platform in `OpenStackPlatformSpec`.
- Updated CRDs to include `imageRetentionPolicy` with a default value of `Prune`.
- Enhanced the OpenStack CLI options to support `--openstack-image-retention-policy`.
- Updated OpenStack resource management to ensure proper handling of Glance images via ORC.
- Removed the mandatory requirement for `--openstack-node-image-name`, allowing ORC to manage RHCOS images dynamically.
- Modified RBAC policies for ORC to ensure proper permissions on `images` resources.
- Refactored related test cases and documentation to align with the new behavior.

This change improves flexibility in managing OpenStack resources, enabling users to retain or prune images based on policy.

Co-Authored-By: Maysa Macedo <maysa.macedo95@gmail.com>
Co-Authored-By: Emilien Macchi <emacchi@redhat.com>
Co-Authored-By: Matthew Booth <matthew@heisenbug.com>

docs/content/how-to/openstack/index.md, after:

---
title: Hosted Clusters on OpenStack
---

This section of the Hypershift documentation contains pages that explain how Hosted Clusters
and Nodepools can be deployed on the [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org) platform.

!!! warning
    OpenStack support within Hypershift is currently "dev-preview" and therefore is not
    yet intended for production use. However, it is possible to create and manage
    Hosted Clusters for development and testing purposes. It is expected to work
    as described in this documentation.

!!! note
    When you create a HostedCluster with the OpenStack platform, HyperShift will install the [CAPI Provider for OpenStack (CAPO)](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-openstack).
    in the Hosted Control Plane (HCP) namespace.
    It will also install [OpenStack Resource Controller (ORC)](https://github.com/k-orc/openstack-resource-controller) in the HCP namespace to manage the OpenStack resources such as the Image.
    Upon scaling up a NodePool, a Machine will be created, and the CAPI provider will create the necessary resources in OpenStack.
    CAPO created OpenStack resources by leveraging [Gophercloud](https://github.com/gophercloud/gophercloud), the OpenStack SDK for Go.

Table of content:

- [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md)
- [Create a Hosted Cluster and a default Nodepool](hostedcluster.md)
- [Destroy a Hosted Cluster](destroy.md)

Advanced scenarios: additional Nodepools can be created with specific configurations:

- [Nodepools distributed over Nova availability zones](az.md)
- [Additional ports for Nodepools](additional-ports.md)
- [Node tuning, SR-IOV Network Operator](performance-tuning.md)
