docs/content/how-to/kubevirt/configuring-storage.md, before:

# Storage Overview

Configuring storage for KubeVirt Hosted Control Planes falls within three
categories, each of which have differing requirements.

**ETCD Storage**

ETCD requires usage of high performance persistent storage on the management
cluster hosting the ETCD pods. Due to the performance requirements, usage of a
local storage csi driver such as [LVM Storage](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.html) is prefered.
When a guest cluster is created in HighAvailability mode, ETCD is replicated
in pods across three separate management cluster nodes. This replication
ensures data resiliency even when a local storage csi driver is in use.

More information about ETCD storage configuration can be found in the
[ETCD Storage Configuration](#etcd storage configuration) section.

**Node Root Volume Storage**

In a KubeVirt Hosted Control Plane, the worker nodes are hosted in KubeVirt VMs.
It is recommended to use a csi driver capable of providing ReadWriteMany
access mode and Block volume mode for the VM root volume storage. This allows
the KubeVirt VMs to live migrate and remain available even when the underlying
infra cluster nodes are disrupted. Ceph is an example of a csi driver that
would meet these requirements.

More information about configuring root volume storage can be found in the
[KubeVirt VM Root Volume Configuration](#kubevirt vm root volume configuration) section.

**KubeVirt CSI Storage**

The KubeVirt CSI driver allows storage classes present on the infra cluster (the cluster the KubeVirt VMs run
on)
to be mapped directly to storage classes within the KubeVirt guest cluster.
This lets the guest cluster utilize the same storage that is available on the
infra cluster.

It is recommended to use an underlying infra storage class capable of
ReadWriteMany access mode and Block volume mode for KubeVirt CSI. This allows
KubeVirt CSI to pass storage to the VMs in a way that still allows for the VMs
to live migrate and be portable across infra nodes.

Below is a chart that outlines the current features of KubeVirt CSI as they map
to the infra cluster's storage class.

| Infra CSI Capability  | Guest CSI Capability               | VM Live Migration Support | Notes                                           | 
|-----------------------|------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| RWX Block             | RWO (Block/Filesystem) RWX (Block) | Supported                 |                                                 |
| RWO Block             | RWO (Block/Filesystem)             | Not Supported             |                                                 |
| RWO Filesystem        | RWO (Block/Filesystem)             | Not Supported             | suboptimal guest block volume mode performance. |

More information about configuring KubeVirt CSI can be found in the
[KubeVirt CSI StorageClass Mapping](#kubevirt csi storageclass mapping) section.

# Configuring Storage

By default, if no advanced configuration is provided, the default storageclass
is used for the the KubeVirt VM images, the kubevirt csi mapping, and the
etcd volumes.

## KubeVirt CSI StorageClass Mapping

KubeVirt CSI permits any infra storage class with the `ReadWriteMany` access
mode to be exposed to the guest cluster. This mapping of infra cluster storage
class to guest cluster storage class can be configured during cluster creation
using the `hcp` cli tool and the `--infra-storage-class-mapping` cli
argument.

Below is an example of how to map two infra storage classes called `infra-sc1`
and `infra-sc2` to guest storage classes called `guest-sc1` and `guest-sc2`.
Note that `--infra-storage-class-mapping` argument can be used multiple times
within the create command.

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sc1/guest-sc1 \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sc2/guest-sc2
```

Once the guest cluster is created, the `guest-sc1` and `guest-sc2` storage
classes will be visible within the guest cluster. When users create a PVC
within the guest cluster that utilizes one of these storage classes, KubeVirt
CSI will facilitate provisioning that volume using the infra storage class
mapping that was configured during cluster creation.

!!! note

    KubeVirt CSI only supports mapping an infrastructure storage class that is
    capable of `ReadWriteMany` (RWX) access.

## KubeVirt CSI VolumeSnapshotClass Mapping

KubeVirt CSI permits infra VolumeSnapshotClasses to be exposed to the guest
cluster. Since VolumeSnapshotClasses are tied to a particular provisioner the
mapping between VolumeSnapshotClasses and StorageClasses needs to expressed to
hypershift during guest cluster creation. using the `hcp` cli tool and the 
`--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping` cli argument.

Below is an example of a simple setup with a single infra storage class and a
single matching volume snapshot class in the infra cluster being mapped to a
single storage class and single volume snapshot class in the guest cluster.

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sc1/guest-sc1 \
--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping=infra-vsc1/guest-vsc1
```

If you omit the `--infra-storage-class-mapping` and the 
`--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping`. The system will use the default 
storage class and the default volume snapshot class in the infra cluster. If 
the default is not set, then the snapshot functionality will not work and the
snapshot request will never reach ready state. This is because it not possible
to create a correct snapshot in the infra cluster.

A more complex setup could contain multiple storage classes with multiple
volume snapshot classes. In particular in this setup one volume snapshot class
is only compatible with certain storage classes but not all. So we have infra
storage class a and b, and infra snapshot volume class a and b. Only the a's
are compatible with each other and only the b's are compatible with each other.

To properly group them together use the 'group' option of the
`--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping` and `group` option of the
`--infra-storage-class-mapping`.
Below is an example of this setup

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sca/guest-sca,group=a \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-scb/guest-scb,group=b \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-scc/guest-scc,group=a \
--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping=infra-vsca/guest-vsca,group=a \
--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping=infra-vscb/guest-vscb,group=b
```

Since both storage class `infra-sca` and volume snapshot class `infra-vsca`
are in the same group, this indicates to KubeVirt CSI that they are 
compatible and be used to create snapshots of volumes from storage class
`guest-sca` using the guest volume snapshot class `guest-vsca`. The same
is true with with the `b` grouping as well. Since `infra-scc` is also in
the `a` group, creating snapshots of volumes from storage class `guest-scc`
will use the same volume snapshot class in the infra cluster as making a
snapshot of volumes that use storage class `guest-sca`

!!! note

   KubeVirt CSI passes snapshot requests to the underlying infra. This means
   that snapshots will only work for compatible volumes. Please ensure the 
   proper mapping is configured before attempting to create a snapshot in the
   guest cluster.

## KubeVirt VM Root Volume Configuration

The storage class used to host the KubeVirt Virtual Machine root volumes can be
configured at cluster creation time using the `hcp` cli tool and the
`--root-volume-storage-class` argument. Likewise, the size of the volume can be
configured using the `--root-volume-size` cli argument.

Below is an example of setting a custom storage class and volume size for the
KubeVirt VMs. The result will be a guest cluster with VMs hosted on 64Gi PVCs
hosted by the `ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rdb` storage class

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--root-volume-storage-class ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rbd \
--root-volume-size 64
```

## KubeVirt VM Image Caching

KubeVirt VM image caching is an advanced feature that can be used to optimize
both cluster startup time and storage utilization. This feature requires the
usage of a storage class capable of [smart cloning](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-cloning-a-datavolume-using-smart-cloning.html) and the `ReadWriteMany`
access mode.

Image caching works by importing the VM image once to a single PVC associated
with the HostedCluster, and then making a unique clone of that PVC for every
KubeVirt VM added as a worker node to the cluster. This reduces VM startup time
by only requiring a single image import, and can further reduce overall cluster
storage usage when the storage class supports copy on write cloning.

Image caching can be enabled during cluster creation using the `hcp` cli
tool with the `--root-volume-cache-strategy=PVC` argument. Below is an example.


```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--root-volume-cache-strategy=PVC
```

## ETCD Storage Configuration

The storage class used to host the etcd data can be customized at cluster
creation time using the `hcp` cli and the `--etcd-storage-class` cli
argument. When no `--etcd-storage-class` argument is provided, the default
storage class will be used.

Below is an example of how to configure usage of a storage class for etcd.

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--etcd-storage-class="local"
```

Commit message:

KubeVirt CSI Security and Isolation Documentation
Signed-off-by: David Vossel <davidvossel@gmail.com>

docs/content/how-to/kubevirt/configuring-storage.md, after:

# Storage Overview

Configuring storage for KubeVirt Hosted Control Planes falls within three
categories, each of which have differing requirements.

**ETCD Storage**

ETCD requires usage of high performance persistent storage on the management
cluster hosting the ETCD pods. Due to the performance requirements, usage of a
local storage csi driver such as [LVM Storage](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.html) is prefered.
When a guest cluster is created in HighAvailability mode, ETCD is replicated
in pods across three separate management cluster nodes. This replication
ensures data resiliency even when a local storage csi driver is in use.

More information about ETCD storage configuration can be found in the
[ETCD Storage Configuration](#etcd storage configuration) section.

**Node Root Volume Storage**

In a KubeVirt Hosted Control Plane, the worker nodes are hosted in KubeVirt VMs.
It is recommended to use a csi driver capable of providing ReadWriteMany
access mode and Block volume mode for the VM root volume storage. This allows
the KubeVirt VMs to live migrate and remain available even when the underlying
infra cluster nodes are disrupted. Ceph is an example of a csi driver that
would meet these requirements.

More information about configuring root volume storage can be found in the
[KubeVirt VM Root Volume Configuration](#kubevirt vm root volume configuration) section.

**KubeVirt CSI Storage**

The KubeVirt CSI driver allows storage classes present on the infra cluster (the cluster the KubeVirt VMs run
on)
to be mapped directly to storage classes within the KubeVirt guest cluster.
This lets the guest cluster utilize the same storage that is available on the
infra cluster.

It is recommended to use an underlying infra storage class capable of
ReadWriteMany access mode and Block volume mode for KubeVirt CSI. This allows
KubeVirt CSI to pass storage to the VMs in a way that still allows for the VMs
to live migrate and be portable across infra nodes.

Below is a chart that outlines the current features of KubeVirt CSI as they map
to the infra cluster's storage class.

| Infra CSI Capability  | Guest CSI Capability               | VM Live Migration Support | Notes                                           | 
|-----------------------|------------------------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| RWX Block             | RWO (Block/Filesystem) RWX (Block) | Supported                 |                                                 |
| RWO Block             | RWO (Block/Filesystem)             | Not Supported             |                                                 |
| RWO Filesystem        | RWO (Block/Filesystem)             | Not Supported             | suboptimal guest block volume mode performance. |

More information about configuring KubeVirt CSI can be found in the
[KubeVirt CSI StorageClass Mapping](#kubevirt csi storageclass mapping) section.

# Configuring Storage

By default, if no advanced configuration is provided, the default storageclass
is used for the the KubeVirt VM images, the kubevirt csi mapping, and the
etcd volumes.

## KubeVirt CSI StorageClass Mapping

KubeVirt CSI permits any infra storage class with the `ReadWriteMany` access
mode to be exposed to the guest cluster. This mapping of infra cluster storage
class to guest cluster storage class can be configured during cluster creation
using the `hcp` cli tool and the `--infra-storage-class-mapping` cli
argument.

Below is an example of how to map two infra storage classes called `infra-sc1`
and `infra-sc2` to guest storage classes called `guest-sc1` and `guest-sc2`.
Note that `--infra-storage-class-mapping` argument can be used multiple times
within the create command.

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sc1/guest-sc1 \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sc2/guest-sc2
```

Once the guest cluster is created, the `guest-sc1` and `guest-sc2` storage
classes will be visible within the guest cluster. When users create a PVC
within the guest cluster that utilizes one of these storage classes, KubeVirt
CSI will facilitate provisioning that volume using the infra storage class
mapping that was configured during cluster creation.

!!! note

    KubeVirt CSI only supports mapping an infrastructure storage class that is
    capable of `ReadWriteMany` (RWX) access.

## KubeVirt CSI VolumeSnapshotClass Mapping

KubeVirt CSI permits infra VolumeSnapshotClasses to be exposed to the guest
cluster. Since VolumeSnapshotClasses are tied to a particular provisioner the
mapping between VolumeSnapshotClasses and StorageClasses needs to expressed to
hypershift during guest cluster creation. using the `hcp` cli tool and the 
`--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping` cli argument.

Below is an example of a simple setup with a single infra storage class and a
single matching volume snapshot class in the infra cluster being mapped to a
single storage class and single volume snapshot class in the guest cluster.

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sc1/guest-sc1 \
--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping=infra-vsc1/guest-vsc1
```

If you omit the `--infra-storage-class-mapping` and the 
`--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping`. The system will use the default 
storage class and the default volume snapshot class in the infra cluster. If 
the default is not set, then the snapshot functionality will not work and the
snapshot request will never reach ready state. This is because it not possible
to create a correct snapshot in the infra cluster.

A more complex setup could contain multiple storage classes with multiple
volume snapshot classes. In particular in this setup one volume snapshot class
is only compatible with certain storage classes but not all. So we have infra
storage class a and b, and infra snapshot volume class a and b. Only the a's
are compatible with each other and only the b's are compatible with each other.

To properly group them together use the 'group' option of the
`--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping` and `group` option of the
`--infra-storage-class-mapping`.
Below is an example of this setup

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-sca/guest-sca,group=a \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-scb/guest-scb,group=b \
--infra-storage-class-mapping=infra-scc/guest-scc,group=a \
--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping=infra-vsca/guest-vsca,group=a \
--infra-volumesnapshot-class-mapping=infra-vscb/guest-vscb,group=b
```

Since both storage class `infra-sca` and volume snapshot class `infra-vsca`
are in the same group, this indicates to KubeVirt CSI that they are 
compatible and be used to create snapshots of volumes from storage class
`guest-sca` using the guest volume snapshot class `guest-vsca`. The same
is true with with the `b` grouping as well. Since `infra-scc` is also in
the `a` group, creating snapshots of volumes from storage class `guest-scc`
will use the same volume snapshot class in the infra cluster as making a
snapshot of volumes that use storage class `guest-sca`

!!! note

   KubeVirt CSI passes snapshot requests to the underlying infra. This means
   that snapshots will only work for compatible volumes. Please ensure the 
   proper mapping is configured before attempting to create a snapshot in the
   guest cluster.

## KubeVirt CSI Storage Security and Isolation

While KubeVirt CSI is extending storage capabilities of the underlying
infrastructure cluster to guest HCP clusters, the csi driver is doing so in a
controlled way. This ensures each guest cluster's storage is both isolated
from other guest clusters, and that the guest cluster can't access arbitrary
storage volumes on the infrastructure cluster that are not associated with the
guest cluster.

This isolation is achieved through a depth of security enforcements

1. Direct API access to the infrastructure cluster is never given directly to
the HCP guest cluster worker nodes. This means the guest cluster does not have
a means to provision storage on the infrastructure cluster except through the
controlled KubeVirt CSI interface.
2. The KubeVirt CSI cluster controller runs in a pod in the HCP namespace, and
is not accessible from within the guest cluster. This component ensures PVCs on
the infrastructure cluster can only be passed into the guest cluster if those
PVCs are associated with the guest cluster.
3. By default, the RBAC provided to the KubeVirt CSI cluster controller limits
PVC access only to the HCP namespace. This prevents the possibility of cross
namespace storage access by any KubeVirt CSI component.

These security enforcements ensure safe and isolated multitenant access to
shared infrastructure storage classes are possible for multiple HCP KubeVirt
guest clusters.

## KubeVirt VM Root Volume Configuration

The storage class used to host the KubeVirt Virtual Machine root volumes can be
configured at cluster creation time using the `hcp` cli tool and the
`--root-volume-storage-class` argument. Likewise, the size of the volume can be
configured using the `--root-volume-size` cli argument.

Below is an example of setting a custom storage class and volume size for the
KubeVirt VMs. The result will be a guest cluster with VMs hosted on 64Gi PVCs
hosted by the `ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rdb` storage class

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--root-volume-storage-class ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rbd \
--root-volume-size 64
```

## KubeVirt VM Image Caching

KubeVirt VM image caching is an advanced feature that can be used to optimize
both cluster startup time and storage utilization. This feature requires the
usage of a storage class capable of [smart cloning](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-cloning-a-datavolume-using-smart-cloning.html) and the `ReadWriteMany`
access mode.

Image caching works by importing the VM image once to a single PVC associated
with the HostedCluster, and then making a unique clone of that PVC for every
KubeVirt VM added as a worker node to the cluster. This reduces VM startup time
by only requiring a single image import, and can further reduce overall cluster
storage usage when the storage class supports copy on write cloning.

Image caching can be enabled during cluster creation using the `hcp` cli
tool with the `--root-volume-cache-strategy=PVC` argument. Below is an example.


```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--root-volume-cache-strategy=PVC
```

## ETCD Storage Configuration

The storage class used to host the etcd data can be customized at cluster
creation time using the `hcp` cli and the `--etcd-storage-class` cli
argument. When no `--etcd-storage-class` argument is provided, the default
storage class will be used.

Below is an example of how to configure usage of a storage class for etcd.

```shell linenums="1"
export CLUSTER_NAME=example
export PULL_SECRET="$HOME/pull-secret"
export MEM="6Gi"
export CPU="2"
export WORKER_COUNT="2"

hcp create cluster kubevirt \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--node-pool-replicas $WORKER_COUNT \
--pull-secret $PULL_SECRET \
--memory $MEM \
--cores $CPU \
--etcd-storage-class="local"
```
