docs/content/how-to/azure/create-azure-cluster-on-aks.md, before:

# Create an Azure Hosted Cluster on AKS
## General
This document describes how to set up an Azure Hosted Cluster on an AKS management cluster with an ExternalDNS setup. 
Azure HostedClusters on AKS are supported from OCP 4.19.0+.

This guide provides both automated script-based setup and manual step-by-step instructions. The automated scripts are located in the [/contrib/managed-azure folder in the HyperShift repo](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/tree/main/contrib/managed-azure) and can significantly simplify the setup process.

## Prerequisites
- Azure CLI
- jq
- oc (OpenShift CLI)
- kubectl
- ccoctl tool
  - The ccoctl tool provides various commands to assist with the creating and maintenance of cloud credentials from outside
    a cluster. More information on the tool can be found [here](https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/blob/master/docs/ccoctl.md).

## Automated Setup (Recommended)

For the quickest setup, you can use the automated scripts. First, create your configuration:

### Quick Start with Automation Scripts

1. **Create your user configuration file**:
   ```sh
   cat <<EOF > user-vars.sh
   # User variables.
   export PREFIX="YOUR-management"
   export PULL_SECRET="/path/to/pull-secret.txt"
   export HYPERSHIFT_BINARY_PATH="/path/to/hypershift/bin/"
   export HYPERSHIFT_IMAGE="quay.io/hypershift/hypershift-operator:latest"
   export RELEASE_IMAGE="quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:4.20.0-ec.3-multi"
   export LOCATION="eastus"
   export AZURE_CREDS="/path/to/azure-creds.json"
   # Azure storage account names must be between 3 and 24 characters in length and may contain numbers and lowercase letters only.
   export OIDC_ISSUER_NAME="YOURmanagement"
   EOF
   ```

2. **Create Azure credentials file** (see Manual Setup Step 2 below for details)

3. **Run the complete automated setup**:
   ```sh
   ../contrib/managed-azure/setup_all.sh
   ```
   
   View the script: [setup_all.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_all.sh)

!!! warning "Important: One-Time Setup Components"
    
    Three scripts create resources that should be **reused across multiple clusters** to avoid quota issues: setup_MIv3_kv.sh (service principals and Key Vault), setup_oidc_provider.sh (OIDC issuer), and setup_dataplane_identities.sh (data plane identities). After running the complete setup once, comment out these three scripts in setup_all.sh for future cluster deployments.

!!! tip
    You can comment out individual steps in setup_all.sh to run only specific parts of the setup process.

The automated setup runs these scripts in sequence:

- [setup_MIv3_kv.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_MIv3_kv.sh) - Sets up control plane identities and Key Vault
- [setup_aks_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_aks_cluster.sh) - Creates the AKS management cluster  
- [setup_external_dns.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_external_dns.sh) - Configures DNS zones and external DNS
- [setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh) - Installs the HyperShift operator
- [setup_oidc_provider.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_oidc_provider.sh) - Sets up OIDC issuer for workload identity
- [setup_dataplane_identities.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_dataplane_identities.sh) - Creates data plane managed identities
- [create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh) - Creates the hosted cluster

## Manual Setup (Step-by-Step)

If you prefer to understand each step or need to customize the process, follow these manual steps:

## Configuration Notes

!!! tip

    For most users, the automated scripts handle all variable configuration automatically. The variables you need to set are defined in your `user-vars.sh` file as shown in the Quick Start section above.

    The `PARENT_DNS_ZONE` value may be different for different teams. Check the `os4-common` resource group associated with your subscription for pre-existing DNS zones. If there are multiple DNS zones, the parent DNS zone is typically the common suffix among them (e.g., `hypershift.azure.devcluster.openshift.com`).

## Manual Steps

### 1. Retrieve User Account Details
**Goal**: Get your Azure subscription and tenant information for authentication setup.

```sh
ACCOUNT_DETAILS=$(az account show --query '{subscriptionId: id, tenantId: tenantId}' -o json)
SUBSCRIPTION_ID=$(echo "$ACCOUNT_DETAILS" | jq -r '.subscriptionId')
TENANT_ID=$(echo "$ACCOUNT_DETAILS" | jq -r '.tenantId')
```

### 2. Create Service Principal for Authentication
**Goal**: Create a service principal that will be used by the HyperShift CLI to create cluster infrastructure.

```sh
SP_DETAILS=$(az ad sp create-for-rbac --name "$PERSONAL_SP_NAME" --role Contributor --scopes "/subscriptions/$SUBSCRIPTION_ID" -o json)
CLIENT_ID=$(echo "$SP_DETAILS" | jq -r '.appId')
CLIENT_SECRET=$(echo "$SP_DETAILS" | jq -r '.password')

cat <<EOF > $SP_AKS_CREDS
{
  "subscriptionId": "$SUBSCRIPTION_ID",
  "tenantId": "$TENANT_ID",
  "clientId": "$CLIENT_ID",
  "clientSecret": "$CLIENT_SECRET"
}
EOF
```
!!! warning
      
    In order for your Hypershift cluster to create properly, the Microsoft Graph `Application.ReadWrite.OwnedBy` 
    permission must be added to your Service Principal and it also must be assigned to User Access Administrator at the 
    subscription level. 

    In most cases, you'll need to submit a DPTP request to have this done.

### 3. Control Plane Identity and Key Vault Setup
**Goal**: Set up managed identities, key vault, and service principals required for the control plane components. This includes creating certificate-based authentication for various OpenShift services and storing credentials securely.

!!! warning "One-Time Setup Only (Steps 3-5)"
    
    Steps 3-5 create resources that should be **reused across multiple clusters** to avoid Azure quota limits: service principals and Key Vault (setup_MIv3_kv.sh), OIDC issuer (setup_oidc_provider.sh), and data plane identities (setup_dataplane_identities.sh). Only run these steps once per environment. For subsequent clusters, comment out all three one-time setup scripts in setup_all.sh.

**Automated Script**: [setup_MIv3_kv.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_MIv3_kv.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating managed identities for AKS cluster components
- Setting up Azure Key Vault with proper RBAC authorization
- Creating service principals for control plane services (cloud provider, disk, file, image registry, etc.)
- Generating and storing certificate JSON in Key Vault
- Creating a JSON credential file for the service principals

### 4. OIDC Provider Setup
**Goal**: Create RSA keys and OIDC issuer for workload identity authentication.

**Automated Script**: [setup_oidc_provider.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_oidc_provider.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating RSA key pairs for service account token signing
- Setting up the OIDC issuer URL in Azure storage
- Configuring the issuer for workload identity federation

### 5. Data Plane Identity Configuration
**Goal**: Create managed identities for data plane components and configure federated identity credentials for workload identity.

**Automated Script**: [setup_dataplane_identities.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_dataplane_identities.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating managed identities for Azure Disk CSI, Azure File CSI, and Image Registry
- Setting up federated identity credentials linking these identities to specific service accounts
- Generating the data plane identities configuration file

### 6. AKS Management Cluster Creation
**Goal**: Create and configure the AKS cluster that will host the HyperShift operator and manage hosted clusters.

**Automated Script**: [setup_aks_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_aks_cluster.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating a resource group for the AKS cluster
- Creating managed identities for AKS cluster and kubelet
- Creating the AKS cluster with required features (Key Vault secrets provider, FIPS, autoscaling, etc.)
- Configuring kubeconfig access
- Setting up role assignments for the Key Vault secrets provider

### 7. DNS Configuration Setup
**Goal**: Create DNS zones and configure external DNS for cluster ingress and API access.

**Automated Script**: [setup_external_dns.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_external_dns.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating a DNS zone for your cluster
- Configuring name server delegation to the parent DNS zone
- Creating a service principal for external DNS management
- Setting up proper DNS permissions and role assignments

### 8. HyperShift Operator Installation
**Goal**: Install the HyperShift operator on the AKS management cluster with proper external DNS and Azure integration.

**Automated Script**: [setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh)

This script handles:

- Installing required CRDs (ServiceMonitors, PrometheusRules, PodMonitors, Routes)
- Installing the HyperShift operator with Azure-specific configuration
- Configuring external DNS integration
- Setting up managed service configuration for ARO-HCP

### 9. Hosted Cluster Creation
**Goal**: Create the actual hosted OpenShift cluster using all the previously configured infrastructure.

**Automated Script**: [create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating the hosted cluster with all required Azure integrations
- Configuring networking (VNet, subnets, NSGs)
- Setting up marketplace image references
- Applying FIPS configuration and security settings
- Enabling workload identity and managed identity integration

### 10. Deleting the Azure Hosted Cluster
You can delete the cluster by using the following command:
```shell
${HYPERSHIFT_BINARY_PATH}/hypershift destroy cluster azure \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--azure-creds $AZURE_CREDS
```

!!! tip
    If you used the automated scripts, `CLUSTER_NAME` is set to `"${PREFIX}-hc"` and `AZURE_CREDS` matches your `user-vars.sh` configuration.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the automated scripts:

1. **Check prerequisites**: Ensure all required tools are installed and configured
2. **Verify permissions**: Confirm your service principal has the required permissions
3. **Review logs**: The scripts use `set -x` for detailed logging
4. **Partial execution**: You can comment out completed steps in `setup_all.sh` to resume from a specific point
5. **Manual verification**: Use the Azure portal to verify resources were created correctly

For additional help, reach out to #project-hypershift on Red Hat Slack.

Commit message:

feat(azure): add --first-time flag to setup_all.sh script
Simplifies Azure cluster setup by adding a --first-time flag that conditionally
runs one-time setup scripts (MIv3_kv, OIDC provider, dataplane identities).

- Eliminates need to manually comment/uncomment scripts for reuse
- First cluster: setup_all.sh --first-time
- Additional clusters: setup_all.sh
- Updated documentation to reflect new usage pattern

Resolves manual script editing and improves user experience for multi-cluster deployments.

docs/content/how-to/azure/create-azure-cluster-on-aks.md, after:

# Create an Azure Hosted Cluster on AKS
## General
This document describes how to set up an Azure Hosted Cluster on an AKS management cluster with an ExternalDNS setup. 
Azure HostedClusters on AKS are supported from OCP 4.19.0+.

This guide provides both automated script-based setup and manual step-by-step instructions. The automated scripts are located in the [/contrib/managed-azure folder in the HyperShift repo](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/tree/main/contrib/managed-azure) and can significantly simplify the setup process.

## Prerequisites
- Azure CLI
- jq
- oc (OpenShift CLI)
- kubectl
- ccoctl tool
  - The ccoctl tool provides various commands to assist with the creating and maintenance of cloud credentials from outside
    a cluster. More information on the tool can be found [here](https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/blob/master/docs/ccoctl.md).

## Automated Setup (Recommended)

For the quickest setup, you can use the automated scripts. First, create your configuration:

### Quick Start with Automation Scripts

1. **Create your user configuration file**:
   ```sh
   cat <<EOF > user-vars.sh
   # User variables.
   export PREFIX="YOUR-management"
   export PULL_SECRET="/path/to/pull-secret.txt"
   export HYPERSHIFT_BINARY_PATH="/path/to/hypershift/bin/"
   export HYPERSHIFT_IMAGE="quay.io/hypershift/hypershift-operator:latest"
   export RELEASE_IMAGE="quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:4.20.0-ec.3-multi"
   export LOCATION="eastus"
   export AZURE_CREDS="/path/to/azure-creds.json"
   # Azure storage account names must be between 3 and 24 characters in length and may contain numbers and lowercase letters only.
   export OIDC_ISSUER_NAME="YOURmanagement"
   EOF
   ```

2. **Create Azure credentials file** (see Manual Setup Step 2 below for details)

3. **Run the complete automated setup**:
   
   For your **first cluster** (includes one-time resource setup):
   ```sh
   ../contrib/managed-azure/setup_all.sh --first-time
   ```
   
   For **additional clusters** (reuses existing resources):
   ```sh
   ../contrib/managed-azure/setup_all.sh
   ```
   
   View the script: [setup_all.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_all.sh)

!!! warning "Important: One-Time Setup Components"
    
    Three scripts create resources that should be **reused across multiple clusters** to avoid quota issues: setup_MIv3_kv.sh (service principals and Key Vault), setup_oidc_provider.sh (OIDC issuer), and setup_dataplane_identities.sh (data plane identities). Use the `--first-time` flag only for your first cluster setup. For subsequent clusters, run the script without this flag to skip the one-time setup and reuse existing resources.

!!! tip
    The `--first-time` flag automatically handles the one-time setup resources. If you need to run individual scripts for troubleshooting, you can execute them directly from the contrib/managed-azure folder.

The automated setup runs these scripts in sequence:

- [setup_MIv3_kv.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_MIv3_kv.sh) - Sets up control plane identities and Key Vault
- [setup_aks_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_aks_cluster.sh) - Creates the AKS management cluster  
- [setup_external_dns.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_external_dns.sh) - Configures DNS zones and external DNS
- [setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh) - Installs the HyperShift operator
- [setup_oidc_provider.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_oidc_provider.sh) - Sets up OIDC issuer for workload identity
- [setup_dataplane_identities.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_dataplane_identities.sh) - Creates data plane managed identities
- [create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh) - Creates the hosted cluster

## Manual Setup (Step-by-Step)

If you prefer to understand each step or need to customize the process, follow these manual steps:

## Configuration Notes

!!! tip

    For most users, the automated scripts handle all variable configuration automatically. The variables you need to set are defined in your `user-vars.sh` file as shown in the Quick Start section above.

    The `PARENT_DNS_ZONE` value may be different for different teams. Check the `os4-common` resource group associated with your subscription for pre-existing DNS zones. If there are multiple DNS zones, the parent DNS zone is typically the common suffix among them (e.g., `hypershift.azure.devcluster.openshift.com`).

## Manual Steps

### 1. Retrieve User Account Details
**Goal**: Get your Azure subscription and tenant information for authentication setup.

```sh
ACCOUNT_DETAILS=$(az account show --query '{subscriptionId: id, tenantId: tenantId}' -o json)
SUBSCRIPTION_ID=$(echo "$ACCOUNT_DETAILS" | jq -r '.subscriptionId')
TENANT_ID=$(echo "$ACCOUNT_DETAILS" | jq -r '.tenantId')
```

### 2. Create Service Principal for Authentication
**Goal**: Create a service principal that will be used by the HyperShift CLI to create cluster infrastructure.

```sh
SP_DETAILS=$(az ad sp create-for-rbac --name "$PERSONAL_SP_NAME" --role Contributor --scopes "/subscriptions/$SUBSCRIPTION_ID" -o json)
CLIENT_ID=$(echo "$SP_DETAILS" | jq -r '.appId')
CLIENT_SECRET=$(echo "$SP_DETAILS" | jq -r '.password')

cat <<EOF > $SP_AKS_CREDS
{
  "subscriptionId": "$SUBSCRIPTION_ID",
  "tenantId": "$TENANT_ID",
  "clientId": "$CLIENT_ID",
  "clientSecret": "$CLIENT_SECRET"
}
EOF
```
!!! warning
      
    In order for your Hypershift cluster to create properly, the Microsoft Graph `Application.ReadWrite.OwnedBy` 
    permission must be added to your Service Principal and it also must be assigned to User Access Administrator at the 
    subscription level. 

    In most cases, you'll need to submit a DPTP request to have this done.

### 3. Control Plane Identity and Key Vault Setup
**Goal**: Set up managed identities, key vault, and service principals required for the control plane components. This includes creating certificate-based authentication for various OpenShift services and storing credentials securely.

!!! warning "One-Time Setup Only (Steps 3-5)"
    
    Steps 3-5 create resources that should be **reused across multiple clusters** to avoid Azure quota limits: service principals and Key Vault (setup_MIv3_kv.sh), OIDC issuer (setup_oidc_provider.sh), and data plane identities (setup_dataplane_identities.sh). Only run these steps once per environment. For subsequent clusters, use `setup_all.sh` without the `--first-time` flag to skip these one-time setup steps.

**Automated Script**: [setup_MIv3_kv.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_MIv3_kv.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating managed identities for AKS cluster components
- Setting up Azure Key Vault with proper RBAC authorization
- Creating service principals for control plane services (cloud provider, disk, file, image registry, etc.)
- Generating and storing certificate JSON in Key Vault
- Creating a JSON credential file for the service principals

### 4. OIDC Provider Setup
**Goal**: Create RSA keys and OIDC issuer for workload identity authentication.

**Automated Script**: [setup_oidc_provider.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_oidc_provider.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating RSA key pairs for service account token signing
- Setting up the OIDC issuer URL in Azure storage
- Configuring the issuer for workload identity federation

### 5. Data Plane Identity Configuration
**Goal**: Create managed identities for data plane components and configure federated identity credentials for workload identity.

**Automated Script**: [setup_dataplane_identities.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_dataplane_identities.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating managed identities for Azure Disk CSI, Azure File CSI, and Image Registry
- Setting up federated identity credentials linking these identities to specific service accounts
- Generating the data plane identities configuration file

### 6. AKS Management Cluster Creation
**Goal**: Create and configure the AKS cluster that will host the HyperShift operator and manage hosted clusters.

**Automated Script**: [setup_aks_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_aks_cluster.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating a resource group for the AKS cluster
- Creating managed identities for AKS cluster and kubelet
- Creating the AKS cluster with required features (Key Vault secrets provider, FIPS, autoscaling, etc.)
- Configuring kubeconfig access
- Setting up role assignments for the Key Vault secrets provider

### 7. DNS Configuration Setup
**Goal**: Create DNS zones and configure external DNS for cluster ingress and API access.

**Automated Script**: [setup_external_dns.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_external_dns.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating a DNS zone for your cluster
- Configuring name server delegation to the parent DNS zone
- Creating a service principal for external DNS management
- Setting up proper DNS permissions and role assignments

### 8. HyperShift Operator Installation
**Goal**: Install the HyperShift operator on the AKS management cluster with proper external DNS and Azure integration.

**Automated Script**: [setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/setup_install_ho_on_aks.sh)

This script handles:

- Installing required CRDs (ServiceMonitors, PrometheusRules, PodMonitors, Routes)
- Installing the HyperShift operator with Azure-specific configuration
- Configuring external DNS integration
- Setting up managed service configuration for ARO-HCP

### 9. Hosted Cluster Creation
**Goal**: Create the actual hosted OpenShift cluster using all the previously configured infrastructure.

**Automated Script**: [create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh](https://github.com/openshift/hypershift/blob/main/contrib/managed-azure/create_basic_hosted_cluster.sh)

This script handles:

- Creating the hosted cluster with all required Azure integrations
- Configuring networking (VNet, subnets, NSGs)
- Setting up marketplace image references
- Applying FIPS configuration and security settings
- Enabling workload identity and managed identity integration

### 10. Deleting the Azure Hosted Cluster
You can delete the cluster by using the following command:
```shell
${HYPERSHIFT_BINARY_PATH}/hypershift destroy cluster azure \
--name $CLUSTER_NAME \
--azure-creds $AZURE_CREDS
```

!!! tip
    If you used the automated scripts, `CLUSTER_NAME` is set to `"${PREFIX}-hc"` and `AZURE_CREDS` matches your `user-vars.sh` configuration.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the automated scripts:

1. **Check prerequisites**: Ensure all required tools are installed and configured
2. **Verify permissions**: Confirm your service principal has the required permissions
3. **Review logs**: The scripts use `set -x` for detailed logging
4. **Partial execution**: Run individual scripts directly from the contrib/managed-azure folder if you need to resume from a specific point
5. **Manual verification**: Use the Azure portal to verify resources were created correctly

For additional help, reach out to #project-hypershift on Red Hat Slack.
